# Quantum Futures Hackathon - Machine Learning Material
18-20 October 2019, CERN

This is a repository of materials for the machine learning session in
the Quantum Futures Hackathon in 2019 at CERN.


# Installation

In this example, [qulacs](http://qulacs.org) is used.
Participants may use [qiskit](https://qiskit.org) instead by modifying the example code.
Both qiskit and qulacs can be installed using pip.

##
I recommend to use python 3.6, which can be installed to CentOS7 or similar by
```
# yum install python36
```
with root account.


## Making and activating a virutalenv.
If you need to specify a path to the python command.
```
$ virtualenv hackathon_2019 -p /usr/bin/python3.6
```
You may ommit -p option, if you want/need to use the /usr/bin/python.
If you don't find the virtualenv command, you may need to install python-virtualenv package.

Then activate the virtualenv.
```
source hackathon_2019/bin/activate
```

## Changing the compiler version
Installation of qulacs requires GCC7 or newer.
You may need to install compatible GCC to your system; you may need a root permission.


## Changing the compiler version
Installation of qulacs requires GCC7 or newer.
You may need to install compatible GCC to your system; you may need a root permission.
```
# yum install centos-release-scl
# yum install devtoolset-7-gcc-c++
```
After the installation of GCC7, you, as a normal user, can change the version,
```
$ scl enable devtoolset-7 bash
```

Now you may need to install relatively new cmake,
```
pip install cmake
```
then other packages.
```
pip install qiskit qulacs matplotlib
```

# Sample code
Sample code using qulacs are in 'qulacs' directory.

Followings contains supporting functions.
* qcl\_classification.py
* qcl\_utils.py

Followings are general example code for classification and regression.
* qcl\_iris\_2d.py
* qcl\_regression\_sine.py

The next code is sample of the circuit A.
* simple\_quantum\_system.py

The next code is sample of running a quantum machine learning using data generated by simple\_quantum\_system.py.
* qcl\_regression.py

Currently, simple\_quantum\_system.py and qcl\_regression.py are separated, but you may combine the two.

The last sample code is for the simulation of parton shower described in arXiv:1904.03196.
You may use this for the Step 2.
* ps\_fermion.py
